We'll start off by talking about the Spring Data project,
and you can visit the Spring Data project by visiting projects.
spring.
io/spring-data.
Spring Data's mission is to provide a familiar and consistent
programming model for data access while still retaining some of those
special traits about the underlying data store,
and this means that regardless of the type of data that's being stored,
Spring Data utilizes sort of these common patterns across all data stores with
the additional goal of ensuring that any of those unique traits that are
specific to a specific data store are still available.
You might be wondering how exactly is the Spring Data project
different than the Spring Framework's Data Access support,
and that's a great question.
The Spring Data project extends the data access
capabilities provided by the Spring Framework,
whereas the Spring Framework is focused on one particular type of database,
particularly relational databases.
The Spring Data project adds new ways of interacting with relational databases,
as well as support from many different types of databases.
Spring Data is actually an umbrella project,
meaning that it itself is not actually a project,
but a series of subprojects, specifically a subproject per supported data store.
And if you scroll down in the main project page,
you can see all the various data stores that are supported.
As you can see,
there's a lot of different submodules to support a lot of different data stores,
and there's the Main modules,
which are supported within the Spring Data umbrella,
and then there's the Community contribute modules that are written and
maintained by others outside of the Spring Data team.
One thing that's nice about all of the Spring project pages is that
they show a quick example of using the technology.
So if we scroll down to the bottom, we can see a section labeled Quick Start,
and without going into the details,
let me give you a quick overview of that this example is doing.
This particular example is showing how you can create
an object that holds some data, and in this case,
it's an Employee object, and then Spring Data helps make it easy to save,
and delete, and find any of that data,
all with built-in methods and little to no additional coding required.
Spring Data, along with some other technologies,
like JPA, which is called the Java Persistence API,
does the hard work of taking the data that's stored
in the object and translating it, or mapping it,
or converting it into something that can be stored into the target data store.
If you're interested in learning more about Spring Data,
there's two Pluralsight courses that utilize Spring Data.
The first course is the same technology that we saw in the demo,
and it's called, Getting Started with Spring Data JPA,
by Dan Bunker,
and the second course is called Getting Started with Spring Data REST, and it's also by Dan Bunker.